README.md, before:

# PDP1-DPY
A Type 30 display for the PiDP1 project<br><br>
This app is an optional update for the PiDP1 to create a Type 30 display.<br>
To start, clone this repo to a convenient location on your Windows or Raspian machine.<br>
The repo contains a build system for both Linux and Windows (Visual Studio .. not VSCode).<br>
Both apps are cut down builds from Simh.<br>
The special feature is the the app can be run on a remote machine. It will connect to a PiDP1 instance as follows.<br>
On the PiDP1 machine, start the PiDP1 app in 'apps' mode (see the instruction manual for this).<br>
You will then need to close the P7 Sim window.<br>
# Windows:
 Under windows, run the pdp1_dpy solution from visual studio.<br>
The solution file is in the ./Visual Studio Projects directory.<br>
The app requires SDL3. This is included in the windows build directory.
The app window is 2014x1069 so you need a sizeable display on the windows machine.<br>
My machine is 5120x2160 with a scale of 150%.<br>
# Raspbian:
You may build and run the app either on the PiDP1 machine or another Pi on the same network.<br>
However, here is the tricky bit. The SDL3 development files and libraries are only available for Raspbian Trixie.<br>
try: sudo apt install libsdl3-dev<br>
If you can install SDL3 either as above or by other means see: https://chastitywhiterose.com/2025/08/19/installing-sdl3-on-debian-linux/<br>
Then in the PDP1-DPY directory, type: ./make.sh<br>
I have trimmed the dependancies as much as possible but you may find that there are missing libraries. Install and try again.<br>
# All:
The in the BIN directory, type ./pdp1 and the app should start.<br>
This version of the app is by default setup for a 1920x1080 display.<br>
I suggest that you start the PiDP1 and load a tape first as above.<br>
At the simh prompt, type 'set dpy ena' and then 'att dpy "name of your PiDP1 machine"' and the display should start.<br>
You may be askimg yourselves, why use SDL3. This library supports transparency so that the DPY display appears as a hexagonal window....<br><br>
![Project Screenshot](assets/screenshot.jpg)
<br>
<br>
# Windows installer
I have now included a Windows installation file in https://github.com/Isysxp/PDP1-DPY/tree/main/DPY_Setup/Release<br>
Open the .msi file and watch were windows puts the installed files. In this directory, run PDP1.exe.<br>
# Added functions for all OSs
This app also provides the following options via the simh prompt:<br>
sim> set dpy scale=(1 or 2) ... 1 is for a large display (at least 2880 x 1800), 2 for a smaller one. Set this BEFORE typeing set dpy ena.<br>
sim> set psize=(1 or 2 or 3 or 4) ... this changes the pixel size in the display.<br>
You can change this parameter while the display is running to find the best setting for you.<br>
<br>
Ian Schofield Feb 2026.

Commit message:

Document lightpen support in README
Added lightpen support information and repo link.

README.md, after:

# PDP1-DPY
A Type 30 display for the PiDP1 project<br><br>
This app is an optional update for the PiDP1 to create a Type 30 display.<br>
To start, clone this repo to a convenient location on your Windows or Raspian machine.<br>
The repo contains a build system for both Linux and Windows (Visual Studio .. not VSCode).<br>
Both apps are cut down builds from Simh.<br>
The special feature is the the app can be run on a remote machine. It will connect to a PiDP1 instance as follows.<br>
On the PiDP1 machine, start the PiDP1 app in 'apps' mode (see the instruction manual for this).<br>
You will then need to close the P7 Sim window.<br>
# Windows:
 Under windows, run the pdp1_dpy solution from visual studio.<br>
The solution file is in the ./Visual Studio Projects directory.<br>
The app requires SDL3. This is included in the windows build directory.
The app window is 2014x1069 so you need a sizeable display on the windows machine.<br>
My machine is 5120x2160 with a scale of 150%.<br>
# Raspbian:
You may build and run the app either on the PiDP1 machine or another Pi on the same network.<br>
However, here is the tricky bit. The SDL3 development files and libraries are only available for Raspbian Trixie.<br>
try: sudo apt install libsdl3-dev<br>
If you can install SDL3 either as above or by other means see: https://chastitywhiterose.com/2025/08/19/installing-sdl3-on-debian-linux/<br>
Then in the PDP1-DPY directory, type: ./make.sh<br>
I have trimmed the dependancies as much as possible but you may find that there are missing libraries. Install and try again.<br>
# All:
The in the BIN directory, type ./pdp1 and the app should start.<br>
This version of the app is by default setup for a 1920x1080 display.<br>
I suggest that you start the PiDP1 and load a tape first as above.<br>
At the simh prompt, type 'set dpy ena' and then 'att dpy "name of your PiDP1 machine"' and the display should start.<br>
You may be askimg yourselves, why use SDL3. This library supports transparency so that the DPY display appears as a hexagonal window....<br><br>
![Project Screenshot](assets/screenshot.jpg)
<br>
<br>
# Windows installer
I have now included a Windows installation file in https://github.com/Isysxp/PDP1-DPY/tree/main/DPY_Setup/Release<br>
Open the .msi file and watch were windows puts the installed files. In this directory, run PDP1.exe.<br>
# Added functions for all OSs
This app also provides the following options via the simh prompt:<br>
sim> set dpy scale=(1 or 2) ... 1 is for a large display (at least 2880 x 1800), 2 for a smaller one. Set this BEFORE typeing set dpy ena.<br>
sim> set psize=(1 or 2 or 3 or 4) ... this changes the pixel size in the display.<br>
You can change this parameter while the display is running to find the best setting for you.<br>
<br>
#Lightpen support
This app also supports lightpen functionality which has now been added to a forked version of the PiDP1 software.<br>
This repo can be found at: https://github.com/wjenh/pidp1-mods and I would like to thanks Bill Ezell for all his hard work in putting this all together.<br>
Installing this is just as easy as with the original software.

Ian Schofield Feb 2026.
